getting-started/gcp/cloudshell_tutorial.md, before:

# Learn HashiCorp Terraform on GCP

## Install Terraform

### Download

[Download Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html)

```
wget https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/0.12.2/terraform_0.12.2_linux_amd64.zip
```

### Unzip

```
unzip terraform_*
```

### Verify version

```
./terraform version
```

```
Terraform v0.12.2
```

NOTE: On any error, verify that you're using Terraform `0.12` or greater with `./terraform version`

### Optional: Skip to final code in `after` branch

We think you'll learn the most if you go through this tutorial step-by-step. But if at any point you want to skip to the final Terraform configuration for the project, you can find it in the `after` branch in the Git repository we've cloned for you.

Delete all your changes first with `git reset`:

```
git reset --hard HEAD
```

Then checkout the `after` branch with this command:

```
git checkout -t origin/after
```

You can provision the infrastructure defined in the final code with these commands:

```
./terraform init && ./terraform apply -auto-approve
```

## Write a configuration

### Set Project Name

Set GCP project name from your account.

https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard

For the purposes of this example, we will use `terraform-project` but you should use your actual project name.

```
provider "google" {
  project = "terraform-project"
  region  = "us-central1"
  zone    = "us-central1-c"
}
```

### Define a network

```
resource "google_compute_network" "vpc_network" {
  name = "terraform-network"
}
```

### Init

```
./terraform init
```

### Plan

```
./terraform plan
```

### Apply

```
./terraform apply
```

You should see:

```
Terraform will perform the following actions:

...

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
```

Answer **yes**.

```
Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

## Change the configuration

### Define a firewall

```
resource "google_compute_firewall" "default" {
  name    = "terraform-firewall"
  network = google_compute_network.vpc_network.self_link

  allow {
    protocol = "tcp"
    ports    = ["9000"]
  }
}
```

```
./terraform apply
```

### Define a compute instance

```
resource "google_compute_instance" "vm_instance" {
  name         = "terraform-instance"
  machine_type = "f1-micro"

  labels = {
    billing_department = "education"
  }

  boot_disk {
    initialize_params {
      image = "debian-cloud/debian-9"
    }
  }

  network_interface {
    network = google_compute_network.vpc_network.self_link
    access_config {
    }
  }

  metadata_startup_script = "echo 'Hello Terraform on GCP!' > index.html; python -m SimpleHTTPServer 9000 &"
}
```

### Show state

```
./terraform show
```

Scroll up to `network_interface` and `access_config` and `nat_ip`. You'll find an IP address something like `0.0.0.0`.

Go to your web browser and type that IP address followed by port `9000`. It will look something like (but use the IP address you found earlier):

```
http://0.0.0.0:9000
```

You should see the message "Hello Terraform on GCP!"

## Define an output

### Display the website URL

```
output "public_ip" {
  value = google_compute_instance.vm_instance.network_interface[0].access_config[0].nat_ip
}
```

```
output "website_url" {
  value = "http://${google_compute_instance.vm_instance.network_interface[0].access_config[0].nat_ip}:9000"
}
```

### See final code

```
git reset --hard HEAD
```


```
git checkout -t origin/after
```

## Destroy

```
./terraform destroy
```

```
Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 3 to destroy.

Do you really want to destroy all resources?
```

It may take a few minutes to complete.

```
Destroy complete! Resources: 3 destroyed.
```

## Conclusion

Done!

[Learn more about Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/)

Commit message:

Remove commands that use locally unzipped terraform executable
An updated GCP disk image is being used that has Terraform 0.12 installed, so it
is not necessary to download Terraform and run it from a local directory.

getting-started/gcp/cloudshell_tutorial.md, after:

# Learn HashiCorp Terraform on GCP

## Install Terraform

### Download

Terraform v0.12 is installed in this disk image. If you need to download Terraform, it's available at this link:

[Download Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html)

To download, use a command line tool like `wget` on Linux or Mac:

```
wget https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/0.12.2/terraform_0.12.2_linux_amd64.zip
```

### Unzip

Unzip the Terraform executable:

```
unzip terraform_*
```

### Verify version

Verify that you are running Terraform 0.12 or greater.

```
terraform version
```

You should see `v0.12.2` or greater in the output.

```
Terraform v0.12.2
```

If you are using a locally downloaded version if Terraform in the current directory, use `./terraform` (leading dot slash) to run the command.

NOTE: On any error, verify that you're using Terraform `0.12` or greater with `./terraform version`

### Optional: Skip to final code in `after` branch

We think you'll learn the most if you go through this tutorial step-by-step. But if at any point you want to skip to the final Terraform configuration for the project, you can find it in the `after` branch in the Git repository we've cloned for you.

Delete all your changes first with `git reset`:

```
git reset --hard HEAD
```

Then checkout the `after` branch with this command:

```
git checkout -t origin/after
```

You can provision the infrastructure defined in the final code with these commands:

```
./terraform init && ./terraform apply -auto-approve
```

## Write a configuration

### Set Project Name

Set GCP project name from your account.

https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard

For the purposes of this example, we will use `terraform-project` but you should use your actual project name.

```
provider "google" {
  project = "terraform-project"
  region  = "us-central1"
  zone    = "us-central1-c"
}
```

### Define a network

```
resource "google_compute_network" "vpc_network" {
  name = "terraform-network"
}
```

### Init

```
terraform init
```

### Plan

```
terraform plan
```

### Apply

```
terraform apply
```

You should see:

```
Terraform will perform the following actions:

...

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
```

Answer **yes**.

```
Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

## Change the configuration

### Define a firewall

```
resource "google_compute_firewall" "default" {
  name    = "terraform-firewall"
  network = google_compute_network.vpc_network.self_link

  allow {
    protocol = "tcp"
    ports    = ["9000"]
  }
}
```

```
terraform apply
```

### Define a compute instance

```
resource "google_compute_instance" "vm_instance" {
  name         = "terraform-instance"
  machine_type = "f1-micro"

  labels = {
    billing_department = "education"
  }

  boot_disk {
    initialize_params {
      image = "debian-cloud/debian-9"
    }
  }

  network_interface {
    network = google_compute_network.vpc_network.self_link
    access_config {
    }
  }

  metadata_startup_script = "echo 'Hello Terraform on GCP!' > index.html; python -m SimpleHTTPServer 9000 &"
}
```

### Show state

```
terraform show
```

Scroll up to `network_interface` and `access_config` and `nat_ip`. You'll find an IP address something like `0.0.0.0`.

Go to your web browser and type that IP address followed by port `9000`. It will look something like (but use the IP address you found earlier):

```
http://0.0.0.0:9000
```

You should see the message "Hello Terraform on GCP!"

## Define an output

### Display the website URL

```
output "public_ip" {
  value = google_compute_instance.vm_instance.network_interface[0].access_config[0].nat_ip
}
```

```
output "website_url" {
  value = "http://${google_compute_instance.vm_instance.network_interface[0].access_config[0].nat_ip}:9000"
}
```

### See final code

```
git reset --hard HEAD
```


```
git checkout -t origin/after
```

## Destroy

```
terraform destroy
```

```
Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 3 to destroy.

Do you really want to destroy all resources?
```

It may take a few minutes to complete.

```
Destroy complete! Resources: 3 destroyed.
```

## Conclusion

Done!

[Learn more about Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/)
